[SDL 0046] Implement logger abstraction (#93)
smartdevicelink/sdl_core_guides: docs/Developer Documentation/Logger/index.md

# SDL Logger

> Open source version of SDL is using log4cxx for logging.

Author: Fixed with  
aeadebe

> Because of lack of log4cxx stability OEM should have an ability to replace log4cxx logger with any other logging boost or syslog.

Reviewer: Please change to:
To provide flexibility SDL now provides the capability to  replace the log4cxx logger with any other logging package such as boost or syslog.

Author: Fixed with  
aeadebe

> SDL implements Logger abstration for easily replacement of logging library.

Reviewer: Please change to:
SDL implements Logger abstraction allowing for easy replacement of the logging library.

Author: Fixed with  
aeadebe

|||
High Level Design
![Logger](./assets/high_level_design.png)
|||

> All components have aceess to `Logger` interface and use it for logging.

Reviewer: Please change to:
All components have access to the `Logger` interface and use it for logging.

Author: Fixed with  
aeadebe

### Logger interface 

> Logger macroses use Logger interface for sending messages to External Logger. 

Reviewer: Please change to
Logger macros use the Logger interface for sending messages to the External Logger.

Author: Fixed with  
aeadebe

> Logger interface contains only methods required by any SDL component to perform logging : 

Reviewer: Please change to:
The logger interface contains only methods required by any SDL component to perform logging :

Reviewer 2: Fixed with https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_core_guides/pull/93/commits/23035bc00e4ad59156e472b85895ee08e898e47e

 * instance() - singleton access
 * PushLog(LogMessage)
 * IsEnabledFor(LogLevel)
 * DeInit()
 * Flush() 

## LoggerImpl

`Logger` interface is implemented by `LoggerImpl`. 

> `LoggerImpl` use message loop thread to proxy log messages to third party (external) logger.

Reviewer: Please change to
`LoggerImpl` uses the message loop thread to proxy log messages to a third party (external) logger.

Reviewer 2: Fixed with https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_core_guides/pull/93/commits/23035bc00e4ad59156e472b85895ee08e898e47e

`LoggerImpl` owns `ThirdPartyLoggerInterface` and controls it's lifetime. 
`LoggerImpl` provides implementation of the singleton pattern.

### Message loop thread in SDLLogger

> Message loop thread is needed to avoid significant performance degradation in run time as logging calls are blocking calls and might take too much time. 

Reviewer: Message loop thread is needed to avoid significant performance degradation at run time as logging calls are blocking calls and might take a significant amount of time.

Reviewer 2: Fixed with https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_core_guides/pull/93/commits/23035bc00e4ad59156e472b85895ee08e898e47e

> `LoggerImpl::PushLog` is non a blocking call. It will put the log message into the queue and returns immediately 

Reviewer: `LoggerImpl::PushLog` is a non-blocking call. It will put the log message into the queue and returns immediately

Reviewer 2: Fixed with https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_core_guides/pull/93/commits/23035bc00e4ad59156e472b85895ee08e898e47e

If `ThirdPartyLoggerInterface` supports non blocking threaded logging, minor changes in `LoggerImpl` can be created with `use_message_loop_thread = false`. 

## Logger singleton 

> Logger is the only one singleton class in SDL.

Reviewer: Logger is the only singleton class in SDL.

Reviewer 3: I think this comment still has to be addressed

Reviewer 2: Fixed with https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_core_guides/pull/93/commits/1e1bbb0c0d0780f5643eec5945d41a35ddc0e786

Singleton pattern required to have an access to logger from any component. 
`Logger::instance()` provides singleton by `Logger` interface.

> So SDL components do not have information about neither logger implementation nor specific external logger. 

Reviewer: So SDL components do not have information about the logger implementation and the specific external logger.

Reviewer 2: Fixed with https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_core_guides/pull/93/commits/23035bc00e4ad59156e472b85895ee08e898e47e

## Logger singleton with plugins 

> SDL plugins are shared libraries, so `LoggerSingleton` could not be implemented with Mayers singleton. 

Reviewer: SDL plugins are shared libraries, so `LoggerSingleton` could not be implemented with a Mayers singleton.

Reviewer 2: Fixed with https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_core_guides/pull/93/commits/23035bc00e4ad59156e472b85895ee08e898e47e

> Mayers singleton would create own SDL logger instance for each plugin.

Reviewer: A Mayers singleton would create own an SDL logger instance for each plugin.

Reviewer 2: Fixed with https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_core_guides/pull/93/commits/23035bc00e4ad59156e472b85895ee08e898e47e

> The idea is to pass singleton pointer to Plugin during creation, so that plugin could initialize `Logger::instance` pointer with one received from SDL core. 

Reviewer: The idea is to pass a singleton pointer to each plugin during creation, so that plugins can initialize the `Logger::instance` pointer with the instance received from SDL core.

Author: Fixed with  
aeadebe

Singleton Instance implementation : 
```cpp
// ilogger.h
static Logger& instance(Logger* pre_init = nullptr);

...
// logger_impl.cc
Logger& Logger::instance(Logger* pre_init) {
  static Logger* instance_ = nullptr;
  if (pre_init) {
    assert(instance_ == nullptr);
    instance_ = pre_init;
  }
  assert(instance_);
  return *instance_;
}
```

`pre_init` is `nullptr` by default, so all components will access instance_ static pointer for logging. 
`main()`  function need to create `SDLLogger` implementation and call `Logger::instance` (logger implementation);

Plugin implementation:
```cpp 
extern "C" PluginType* Create(Logger* logger_singleton_instance) {
  Logger::instance(logger_instance);
  return new PluginType();
}
```

> SDL Core part will pass pointer to logger singleton to the plugin so that plugin shared lib could initialize `Logger::instance` with the same pointer as core part. 

Reviewer: SDL Core will pass a pointer to the logger singleton to the plugin so that the plugin shared lib can initialize `Logger::instance` with the same pointer as the core portion.

Author: Fixed with  
aeadebe

## Logger detailed design :

Each source file creates `logger_` variable via macro `SDL_CREATE_LOG_VARIABLE`. 

> This variable is actually a string with component name of the logger.

Reviewer: This variable is actually a string with the component name of the logger.

Author: Fixed with  
aeadebe

SDL implements all info required for log message :

 * LogLevel enum
 * Location info struct : location in the code
 * TimePoint 

|||
Detailed Design
![Logger in details](./assets/detailed_logger_design.png)
|||

### LoggerInitializer interface 

LoggerInitializer specify interface required for Main to init logger but not required for any other SDL components

LoggerInitializer should take and own the third party implementation into `Init` method. 
 - Init(std::unique_ptr<ThirdPartyLoggerInterface>&& third_party)

### ThirdPartyLogger interface

ThirdPartyLogger interface describes interfaces that should be implemented by external logger adapter. 

This interface should be inherited by particular external logger implementation. 

## Another logger implementation. 

To use another (not log4cxx) logger, you should implement ThirdPartyLoggerInterface class 

```cpp
AnotherOneLoggerImpl : ThirdPartyLoggerInterface {
  void Init() override;
  void DeInit() override;
  void IsEnabledFor(LogLevel) override;
  void PushLog(const LogMessage& log_message) override;

  void SomeCustomMethod(parameters);
}
```

> Then you should create `AnotherOneLoggerImpl` in main and setup it for `LoggerImpl`.

Reviewer: Next create `AnotherOneLoggerImpl` in main and setup it for `LoggerImpl`.

Author: Fixed with  
aeadebe

> Note that `Logger::instance` does not own logger instance. `main` function is reponsible for `sdl_logger_instance_` lifecycle.

Reviewer: Note that `Logger::instance` does not own logger instance. The `main` function is responsible for the `sdl_logger_instance_` life-cycle.

Author: Fixed with  
aeadebe

# SDL Logger

> SDL Core uses log4cxx for logging.

Reviewer 3: Might be good to add a link here
```suggestion
SDL Core uses [log4cxx](https://logging.apache.org/log4cxx/latest_stable/) for logging.
```

Reviewer 2: Done in https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_core_guides/pull/93/commits/1e1bbb0c0d0780f5643eec5945d41a35ddc0e786

`main()`  function need to create `SDLLogger` implementation and call `Logger::instance` (logger implementation);

Plugin implementation:
```cpp 
extern "C" PluginType* Create(Logger* logger_singleton_instance) {
  Logger::instance(logger_instance);
  return new PluginType();
}
```

SDL Core will pass a pointer to the logger singleton to the plugin so that the plugin shared lib can initialize `Logger::instance` with the same pointer as the core portion.

## Logger detailed design :

Each source file creates `logger_` variable via macro `SDL_CREATE_LOG_VARIABLE`. 
This variable is actually a string with the component name of the logger.
Some logger implementations (like log4cxx) may have separate severity or destination rules for each component. 

SDL implements all info required for log message :

 * LogLevel enum
 * Location info struct : location in the code
 * TimePoint 

|||
Detailed Design
![Logger in details](./assets/detailed_logger_design.png)
|||

### LoggerInitializer interface 

LoggerInitializer specify interface required for Main to init logger but not required for any other SDL components

> LoggerInitializer should take and own the third party implementation into `Init` method. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`LoggerInitializer::Init` takes the third party logger implementation as an argument. 
```

>  - Init(std::unique_ptr<ThirdPartyLoggerInterface>&& third_party)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 - `Init(std::unique_ptr<ThirdPartyLoggerInterface>&& third_party)`
```

### ThirdPartyLogger interface

> ThirdPartyLogger interface describes interfaces that should be implemented by external logger adapter. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`ThirdPartyLoggerInterface` describes interfaces that should be implemented by the external logger adapter. 
```

> This interface should be inherited by particular external logger implementation. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This interface should be inherited by external logger implementations. 
```

> ## Another logger implementation. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Implementing another logger 
```

> To use another (not log4cxx) logger, you should implement ThirdPartyLoggerInterface class 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To use another (not log4cxx) logger, you should: 

1. Create a class which inherits from the `ThirdPartyLoggerInterface` class 
```

```cpp
AnotherOneLoggerImpl : ThirdPartyLoggerInterface {
  void Init() override;
  void DeInit() override;
  void IsEnabledFor(LogLevel) override;
  void PushLog(const LogMessage& log_message) override;

  void SomeCustomMethod(parameters);
}
```

> Next create `AnotherOneLoggerImpl` in main and setup it for `LoggerImpl`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Create an instance of the third party logger implementation(`AnotherOneLoggerImpl`) in `main()` and set it up for `LoggerImpl`.
```

> Note that `Logger::instance` does not own logger instance. The `main` function is responsible for the `sdl_logger_instance_` life-cycle.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
!!! NOTE
`Logger::instance` does not own the logger instance. The `main` function is responsible for the `sdl_logger_instance_` life-cycle.
!!!
```

## Logger detailed design

Each source file creates `logger_` variable via macro `SDL_CREATE_LOG_VARIABLE`. 
This variable is actually a string with the component name of the logger.
Some logger implementations (like log4cxx) may have separate severity or destination rules for each component. 

SDL implements all info required for log message :

 * LogLevel enum
 * Location info struct : location in the code
 * TimePoint 

|||
Detailed Design
![Logger in details](./assets/detailed_logger_design.png)
|||

### LoggerInitializer interface 

`LoggerInitializer` specifies the interface required for `main()` to initialize the logger but is not required for any other SDL components.

`LoggerInitializer::Init` takes the third party logger implementation as an argument. 
 - `Init(std::unique_ptr<ThirdPartyLoggerInterface>&& third_party)`

### ThirdPartyLogger interface

`ThirdPartyLoggerInterface` describes interfaces that should be implemented by the external logger adapter. 

This interface should be inherited by external logger implementations. 

## Implementing another logger 

To use another (not log4cxx) logger, you should: 

> 1. Create a class which inherits from the `ThirdPartyLoggerInterface` class 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 * Create a class which inherits from the `ThirdPartyLoggerInterface` class 
```

```cpp
AnotherOneLoggerImpl : ThirdPartyLoggerInterface {
  void Init() override;
  void DeInit() override;
  void IsEnabledFor(LogLevel) override;
  void PushLog(const LogMessage& log_message) override;

  void SomeCustomMethod(parameters);
}
```

> 2. Create an instance of the third party logger implementation(`AnotherOneLoggerImpl`) in `main()` and set it up for `LoggerImpl`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 * Create an instance of the third party logger implementation(`AnotherOneLoggerImpl`) in `main()` and set it up for `LoggerImpl`.
```
